Meta, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google (MAANG) are some of the Biggest tech companies in the world. Some people extend this set to include other large companies, such as Microsoft, Wipro and Infosys. 

A job at MAANG comes with global acknowledgment, huge opportunities of growth and exposure, heavy salary packages and perks. Due to these excellent career opportunities, MAANG companies tempt all career-seekers.

The meta platform which was formerly known as Facebook is a popular social media platform that helps to connect and communicate with friends from any part of the world. 

Amazon is the next tech company listed with MAANG and it issues the most expensive stock amongst the companies.

Apple on the other hand is an American multinational technology company that specializes in electronics and gadgets. The company has gained high recognition among all companies of its kind.

Netflix being the fourth listed company on MAANG is one of the highly reputable tech companies with its focus basically on TVs.

Google is the leading and most recognized search engine with massive users from all parts of the globe. Following its huge reputation in the tech space, the company had struck a benchmark $1 trillion market cap in 2020. 

 Artificial Intelligence is indeed the future and has the potential to transform economies, businesses, and societies. With the help of AI technologies, the efficiency, speed, and accuracy of human efforts have become better.

Artificial intelligence plays an essential role to MAANG companies like:-This interdisciplinary skill is used by machine learning, artificial intelligence, and statistics for extracting information that is further used for assessing the probability of any events happening in the future. 

AI professionals work closely on applied mathematics and algorithms. MAANG companies look for mathematical skills like statistics, graphing, algebra, probability, optimisation techniques, and more. These skills come in handy to create algorithms and solve problems based on requirements.

There is no doubt that MAANG is heavily weighted considering the group of big and reputable firms it combines. This has so much impacted the stock market such that fluctuations in the price of these stocks would somehow reflect in the performance of the general stock market.

