DeFi: The Ultimate Beginner's Guide to Decentralized Finance
Decentralized finance has ballooned over the past year—but what is DeFi, and how can you get started with its set of tools? We explain.
By Robert Stevens

15 min read

Jan 20, 2021



Decentralized finance, or DeFi, sits at the white-hot center of the recent crypto bull run.

DeFi is crypto’s big thing at the moment, a little like how Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) were all the rage back in 2017. Back in June 2020, just $1 billion was locked up in DeFi protocols, according to metrics site DeFi Pulse. By January 2020, "DeFi degens" had poured over $20 billion worth of cryptocurrencies into DeFi smart contracts.

What is DeFi?
So what is this powerful, wild beast known as DeFi? And isn’t all of crypto decentralized finance, anyway? Sort of. The DeFi movement refers to a specific genre of financial product that champions decentralization above all else, and uses lucrative incentive mechanisms to encourage investors to play along. 

The decentralized finance world is made up of a multitude of non-custodial financial products, built around a culture of highly-experimental, highly-lucrative crypto projects that’s caught the eye of top companies and venture capitalists—and not a few scammers. 
Among the most popular projects are lending protocols Aave, Maker and Compound. These are protocols that let you borrow cryptocurrencies instantaneously—and often in large amounts if you can prove you can pay back the loan in a single transaction. You can also earn interest from lending out cryptocurrencies.

Then there’s Uniswap, a decentralized exchange that lets you trade any Ethereum-based token you like, or earn money if you add liquidity to that token’s market. DeFi’s also about synthetic assets, like Synthetix’s tokenized stocks or Maker’s decentralized stablecoin, DAI, whose value is algorithmically determined by the protocol. And other services port Bitcoin to Ethereum in a non-custodial manner or offer decentralized price oracles, which, among other things, allow synthetic assets to accurately peg themselves to their non-synthetic likenesses. 

What earns these protocols the DeFi tag is that they are—at least in principle or ambition—decentralized and non-custodial. 

Non-custodial means that the teams don’t manage your crypto on your behalf. Unlike, say, depositing your money in a bank or lending out your crypto with a crypto loans company (such as Cred), with DeFi protocols you always maintain control over your cryptocurrency.

Decentralized means that the creators of these protocols have devolved power over their smart contracts to the community—in the spirit of the hacker ethic, their creators vote themselves out of power as soon as possible and let the users vote on the future of the network.
The space has been known to fall short of its lofty ideals. In even some of the largest DeFi protocols, close readings of their smart contracts reveal that teams hold immense power or the contracts are vulnerable to manipulation. 

But it’s wildly lucrative for some traders. Many of these lending protocols offer crazy interest rates, bumped up even higher by the phenomenon of yield farming, whereby these lending protocols offer additional tokens to lenders. 

These so-called governance tokens, which can also be used to vote on proposals to upgrade the network, are tradable on secondary markets, meaning that some annual percentage yields work out at 1000%. (Of course, whether the protocols in question will last a whole year is up for debate). 
How to get started with DeFi
So you want to try this DeFi thing out? Here’s what you need to do. 

First, get a wallet that supports Ethereum and can connect to various DeFi protocols through your browser. MetaMask is a common choice.

Second, buy the relevant coin for the DeFi protocol you plan to use. Right now, most DeFi protocols live on Ethereum, so you’ll have to buy ETH or an ERC-20 coin to use them. (If you want to use Bitcoin, you’ll have to exchange it for an ETH version of Bitcoin, like Wrapped BTC). 

Third, play the DeFi game. There are innumerable ways to do so. 

One way is to lend out your cryptocurrencies. An easy way to see how to get the best deal is to use yearn.finance, which lists them in one simple place. You could become a “yield farmer” by earning the governance tokens that are awarded for lending out your cryptocurrencies. More information on potential profits from yield farming can be found on sites like yieldfarming.info.

A second way to play would be to put your funds in a decentralized exchange, such as Uniswap, and earn fees by becoming a market maker. You could even put them in the controversial Uniswap rival SushiSwap, which allows you to earn yield-farming tokens on your market making. 

Third, you could invest in one of the highly experimental, crazier DeFi projects, like Based.Money, whose token price “rebases” daily, skewing the price of the token, or the popular variety of volatile meme coins, such as $YAM, $TENDIES, $KIMCHI, $SHRIMP, and so on.

But one thing to keep in mind: The space is full of risks, scammers and errors. This is a highly experimental and risky space within crypto, which is itself a highly experimental and risky space. Fraudsters, exit scammers and "rug pulls" are rife, and people often discover vulnerabilities in smart contracts that reveal how the token creators hold all the power (and the project is not decentralized at all, after all). Be careful.
