Any human-like behaviour shown by a computer or system is referred to as artificial intelligence (AI) broadly speaking. The most fundamental kind of AI is the "mimicry" of human behaviour by computers, which are taught to do so using a wealth of historical data. This might involve artificial intelligence executing complicated tasks in a manufacturing environment or just being able to distinguish between a cat and a bird.
The basis of AI's application is in circumstances that call for blazing-fast reactions, whether you're referring to deep learning, strategic thinking, or another type of AI. Through supervised, unsupervised, or reinforced learning, AI enables robots to operate effectively and quickly evaluate massive volumes of data.
Artificial intelligence is classified into two main categories: AI that’s based on functionality and AI that’s based on capabilities ;
Based on functionality; Reactive Machine, Limited Theory, Theory of Mind, Self-Aware AI .
Based on capabilities; Artificial Narrow Intelligence (ANI), Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), Artificial Super Intelligence (ASI) .
Artificial intelligence is also a branch of computer science that seeks to simulate human intelligence in a machine. AI systems are powered by algorithms, using techniques such as machine learning and deep learning to demonstrate “intelligent” behavior.
A new generation of enterprise-ready AI technology has begun to emerge as a result of recent developments in computing, including price reductions and gains in processing power, the explosion of digital data sets, and algorithmic advancements. All companies have mountains of data assets that are always expanding, and AI gives us the tools to evaluate these resources at scale.
As a key component of the digital transformation process, AI is also destined to become a mainstay in businesses. Artificial intelligence (AI) is an all-purpose technology that may improve insight and efficiency in practically any company activity, from customer service operations to physical and cybersecurity systems to R&D tasks to business analytics procedures.

