Any digital or software technology used in healthcare is referred to as healthcare technology since it supports and helps patients, physicians, and healthcare organizations like hospitals and research institutes in many ways. In 2022, there will be a lot of new developments in healthcare as technology and the internet continue to advance, benefiting both patients and medical professionals.
Telehealth, often known as remote medical treatment, is one of them. Telehealth allows you to see a doctor without leaving your house, which is beneficial for a variety of patient populations, including elderly patients and those who live in distant areas. In telehealth, a patient and doctor can speak with one another online via videoconference or other streaming services. Today's industry offers a wide variety of telehealth applications. With the help of these apps, you can book an appointment, consult a doctor, add your medicine intake and record your medical details.
The next one is Nanomedicine; Nanomedicine is defined as the use of nanoparticles or nano-objects like nanorobots or any other nanoscale materials in the medical industry. Nanomedicine is one of the most promising medical fields in the future. Nanomedicine is so helpful in target drug injection and cancer treatment. Organizations use Nanopill cameras to study the inner parts of the body. In the coming years, the use of nanotechnology in the medical field will only increase. The nanomedicine industry is predicted to hit a market of over 125 billion dollars by 2024.
The next one is Smart wearables; One of the important innovations and current medical technology is smart wearables. Statistics show that 1 in 5 American people wear a fitness tracker. It is expected to grow to 1 in 3. The use of smartwatches is increasing fast among every age group. There are many software companies like Apple, Samsung, and Fitbit that are leading smart watchmakers. Smartwatches and fitness trackers can: Track your daily activities, Record your heartbeat, Record your ECG reports, Record your blood oxygen levels
The next one is AI in healthcare; Artificial intelligence is everywhere, and it hits every industry possible. Implementing AI and ML(machine learning) have several advantages. Making the robot do the work is not a new thing, but using it effectively in many micro areas of the healthcare industry will yield good results.
Another is the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT), which is a collection of hardware and software technologies for medical equipment that are linked to the internet. We can easily send and store a lot of data when we link a lot of medical gadgets to the internet. Early diagnosis of chronic or urgent illnesses is possible with a lot of data. A smart robot nurse similar to those used in Italian hospitals to monitor patients' SpO2 and blood pressure during critical emergencies is also a possibility.
The next step is predictive analysis, which is a technique for delivering better patient care. Machine learning algorithms may be trained to display knowledge to treat forthcoming patients by leveraging the data and outcomes of former patients. Data will be provided and outcomes predicted in advance by gathering data from several IoMT and applying AI and ML to data analysis. Based on the tendencies in this enormous amount of data, a pattern will be developed. An improved patient care, quicker diagnosis, quicker medication development, significant respite for healthcare professionals, and better decision-making in crises are some benefits of predictive analysis.
The next option is bioprinting; 3D printing is not a novel technique for the medical sector. But as opposed to surgery, it will be widely employed in additional fields in the future. The advantages of bioprinting are: It makes complicated surgeries easier to perform, Takes very little time for production, More practice for the trainers, More customization from any other methods for external implants like artificial legs, and is Cost-effective.
